[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>From the earliest days
that I could remember,
my mind was constantly capturing
the frame, the broad expanse
of sky and the mountains of
Vermont that I grew up on,
watching the animals,
becoming part of nature.
But what I really wanted
to do was make films.
So off to the big
city I went to study
motion picture,
television, business.
The streets of New York
became my greatest coach
and my friends, my
family, my best teachers.
I got very good at what I
wanted to do, very fast.
If you took a snapshot of
my life, it looked perfect.
I had a lot of fun.
I won awards on MTV.
I directed music videos
for Grammy winning artists.
I made my first
independent feature film.
I ran my own production
company and was fully immersed
in being a filmmaker.
I had a big home in
Manhattan, drove around
town in fancy cars.
I had supermodel girlfriends
to go with my super-sized ego.
I got into all the best
parties and hung out
with the coolest people.
But I wasn't satisfied.
There was something missing.
So I went to Hollywood,
took it to the next level,
big movies, big stars.
Don't get me wrong, it
was a very good time.
And I really believed
this would be
the thing that
finally made me happy.
But it didn't.
>>No matter how big I did
it or how hard I tried,
something profound was
still missing from my life.
And I didn't know what it was.
Then I began to wonder if
filmmaking was my gift.
Maybe I didn't
have any real gift.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THUNDER]
>>We incarnate on planet
Earth not to receive anything
from the world whatsoever.
But we incarnate to release
the gifts, the talents,
the capacities, and the
powers that are within us.
People have a tendency to
think that the world owes them
something or that people
owe them something.
But in reality, as we evolve,
as we become more conscious,
we discover that this life
force or this life presence
is seeking to become
conscious of itself
as us, according to
our unique pattern.
That unique pattern is our gift.
It is the way we get to express
the life, the love, the beauty,
the joy, the intelligence,
the order of the universe
as only we can do it.
So everyone, being
a unique emanation
of this presence,
everyone being a singular
manifestation of
a cosmic destiny,
has not only one
gift but many ways
by which to release
this life energy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Even life, itself, is a gift.
But it comes with a
beautiful wrapping paper.
And often, we don't
uncover the wrapping.
We are just caught up with the
beautiful, colored, glittery
wrapping paper.
We never to into the
depth of what life is.
So we need to unwrap the gift
that life has offered to us
and discover, really,
what is inside of us.
>>It is our unique way
of expressing love,
our unique way of
revealing creativity,
downloading wisdom and beauty
and all of the
transcended qualities
that are everywhere present.
Some are more specific.
Some have a proclivity
towards doing that musically.
Some can do it vocally.
Some do it through architecture
or through healing.
But ultimately, as an
individual releases their gift,
they're actually
releasing the next stage
of their own evolution and
activating that same vibration
and frequency in others as well.
It's why we're here.
>>Well, everybody does
have a gift to give.
And the gift is the
essence of who they are.
The sun has to shine.
It's the nature of
the sun to do that.
It doesn't withhold its shining.
And it doesn't shine
to get feedback.
It just does it because
that's its nature.
And it's our nature to love.
It's our nature to
express ourselves.
It's our nature to give.
If we are from
that which is all,
then we contain all within us.
And we have some unique aspect
of that allness that we are.
Just like nature
contains flowers
of many different varieties,
we are all different varieties
of this god-consciousness that's
manifest in physical form.
Knowing that we come
from that and that we're
returning to that, we can't
be anything less than that.
I mean we are literally
expressions of God.
>>You know, a lot
of times in life,
it's like you're lifted
to the top of the mountain
for a moment, just to
show you what's there.
And then you have to go back
to the bottom of the mountain
and you have to climb.
If you take away the
humanity of the journey,
you take away part of what
is, to me, most beautiful.
>>And in my own journey,
I was missing something,
the presence of which would
make a profound difference
in my life.
I was not present
to my own presence.
And I had no idea
that the fact that I
had no relationship with the
closest living woman, blood
relative, on the
planet to me, was
what was affecting
me so profoundly.
And then I realised I was
the source of the fighting
in my family.
>>So I got a phone
call from my brother,
unexpectedly, because
we hadn't spoken
to each other for
quite a few years.
I don't even remember
exactly how long it was.
It just felt like forever.
Because we didn't like
each other at that time.
And our relationship was
toxic for each other.
>>I was in an emotional
war with my sister.
We had not spoken in years.
We hadn't really communicated
since our mother had died.
And if you put us
in a room together,
there was going to be an all
out verbal and, at some point,
physical fight.
>>And I got the phone
call, surprisingly,
because truthfully,
at that point,
I wasn't going to
communicate with him anymore.
>>I finally was able to let go
of all the issues that I had
and call my sister.
>>He called.
And I said, Dad OK?
Is Tata OK?
And at that point,
that's who we had
left in our life,
my brother and I.
>>She hadn't heard me cry
since our mother died.
So the first thing
she said was who died?
I said nobody's dead.
Dad's not dead, no, grandpa, no.
>>But I want to talk to you.
And I said, well, I don't really
want to talk to you, at all.
And he said, I really
want to talk to you.
It's important.
I need to ask your forgiveness.
>>I said something's died.
I said what has
died is the anger
within my own soul towards
you, which was really
anger towards myself for
having abandoned you,
as your bigger brother.
>>And that just stunned me.
And I didn't even
know what to do
with that, because it was
the last thing I was ever
expecting, ever, was for my
brother to call me and say,
can you ever forgive me?
All I ever wanted
was to say, yes.
So of course, immediately, I
said, yes, and what's going on?
And I love you, Demian.
And he said, I love you, too.
And I'm really, really
sorry for everything.
>>And I told her,
in that moment,
I said, from today forth, I
will never, ever, ever raise
my voice to you again.
From now and until
the day I die,
when you want to know what that
bright light on your shoulder
is, it's your brother,
baby, and I got your back.
>>And that was like the
happiest day of my life
that I had experienced
to that day.
Because my life had
just been going away.
Everything that I thought
was solid and real
in life kept leaving.
And so I said, yes.
And we cried on the phone,
together, for a long time.
And I'll never forget it.
>>And the power of that
moment, the vibrational shift
in energy, between my sister,
Shajen Joy, and her brother,
Demian, was so profound that
that vibration permeated out
into our entire family.
And our entire family
stopped fighting.
>>And I just wanted to
be there, with my brother
and be in the forgiveness
with him, and be together.
And he said, let's be a family.
I want to be connected.
And I was like, yes.
I want to be connected, too.
I've been waiting.
And I'm so excited.
And that then began
another life for me,
which was a life of being
connected to my family.
>>I realized that I had
everything within my being
that it took to eliminate
anger in my world.
And if I could do
that there, then it
was possible that I could expand
that realm of consciousness
to the next realm.
And if I could
take it from there
and expand it to the world,
what would be possible?
[DRUMS, CHANTING, TIBETAN
INSTRUMENTS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We've all heard ask
and you shall receive.
Seek and ye shall find.
Knock and the door
shall be opened.
This is a law.
The universe is always
seeking to wake us up.
It's always broadcasting
what's within us,
the powers that are within us,
the gifts that are within us.
If we ask the question,
we've now become receptive.
>>Why do I want
to be a filmmaker?
Why do I want to
travel the world
and create stories about
the human existence?
And I answered that question.
Because I ultimately
believe that
it is possible to
reach the entire planet
through the process
of being a filmmaker.
And now realizing that I do
have an extraordinary gift,
I want to share it.
I want to make a difference.
>>Well if an individual really
wants to discover their gift,
they have to ask, what is
trying to express through me?
What gift is trying to emerge?
What power is trying to become
conscious of itself as me?
Many people aren't
asking that question.
They're just asking,
how can I avoid pain,
how can I get more
stuff, how can I fit in
to the society in
which I'm living, how
can I become successful?
And perhaps their
model of success
is something that's
been handed down
to them by a high tech, low
touch, consumer driven society.
But when you ask, how
could I become more myself,
how can I share my gifts, how
could I activate my potential?
Now you begin to activate the
spiritual faculties within you
that allow you to
hear the inaudible
and to ultimately
see the invisible.
Because you're pulling
yourself out of the world.
You're pulling yourself
into an interior awareness
of a broadcast that's
always being given.
We're guided not by the world.
We are guided by our heart.
We're guided by our
soul's desire to unfold.
>>I remember growing up feeling
like I didn't belong this
on this planet, like
I was an anomaly.
And I remember feeling just
so alone and so disconnected
and so sad.
And then that escalated to
a point of feeling angry,
like something had to shift,
something had to change.
And from that space is
where I began to search.
I had like this
inner knowing that I
was destined for more than
what was showing up in my life.
I just hadn't trusted it before.
So I started tuning
in to that and asking
questions, deep questions.
Who am I?
Like who am I really?
And what's my purpose here?
And then I noticed that when I
asked disempowering questions,
like why is this happening to
me, I would experience pain.
But when I asked those
higher vibrational questions,
like what am I grateful for,
you know, who do I love,
or how can I serve, amazing
opportunities would come
and amazing gifts
would be revealed.
So it was from that
receptive place
that began with a question.
The quality of our
lives is directly
proportionate to the quality
of the questions that we ask.
We create as we speak.
>>The closer I am onto
the frequency of what
I'm supposed to be doing,
the more perfect life
is, the more synchronistic
things happen, the more
love and laughter I experience,
and the more fun I have.
>>The only way that the
highest good can manifest,
through our life
experience, is when
we are delving into
this radio station
that this gift resides in.
>>What most of us
do, unfortunately,
because of the way we're
educated, by our parents
and by school and
by the military,
is we lose touch
with that essence.
And then you end up at the top
of the ladder, 50 years later,
only to discover you
have the ladder leaning
against a long wall.
You've wasted your life.
Not to discover
your gift is to die
with the music inside of you.
>>If we don't give the gift,
we're killing ourselves.
We are atrophying our heart
and our soul and living life
on a survival level, which has
a tremendous amount of anxiety,
fear.
Fear-based living leads
to terrible decisions,
destruction, hurt, anger.
Long lasting happiness
can only come
when we're sharing our gift.
>>And if you're
holding that gift back,
then what you're
asking is you're
asking the world, the
other people in it,
to hold their gifts
back from you.
So you don't get to participate
in this magnificent life
that we all have.
You're holding back.
The more you give
your gift, the more
that you participate and make
a difference in the world,
the more the world will
make a difference for you.
>>So very practically, we have
to wake up every single day
asking, what's trying
to emerge in me today?
What gift is trying to
activate itself in me today?
What power is trying to
become itself in me today?
And if the question
is sincere enough
and the love is real
enough, the universe
will reveal its secrets to us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>When you start
off on your path,
one of the very first
things you notice
is that the biggest
obstacle you have is you.
For me, I definitely had
a flash of transformation.
I had the big breakthrough
moment with my sister.
I popped into a new world.
Suddenly, I felt alive.
I felt connected to everything.
I could see, touch,
smell, hear things
I could never perceive
before and marveled
at the wonders of
life and suddenly
thought I knew
something about nature
and god and the divine spirit.
And then I experienced
the unveiling
of a system of
harmonious principles,
eight distinct,
universal, spiritual laws,
all working together in a
unified field of consciousness.
They were coming in fast--
receptivity, intention,
interaction, feedback,
vibration, gratitude,
compassion, and unity.
And for a brief moment,
I glimpsed infinity,
and it all became clear.
And in this space, every bad
habit and overblown piece
of my ego came rushing
back in to fill
the void of the new
space I had just created.
It was like I was
back to square one--
or worse, because now I knew
that unified field existed.
If I wanted this
transformation to last,
I was going to have to earn it.
I was going to have
to work for it.
I was going to have to go after
it like my life depended on it.
And to me, it did.
My friend, Chet
Holmes, introduced me
to Michael and Sydney
Cresci, two incredible people
who would change
my life forever.
They were hosting a symposium
on consciousness, attended
by authors,
motivational speakers,
and transformational leaders
from around the world.
They had come together to
embark on an epic journey
into the frontier of what is
possible in personal growth,
and how each of us to make a
difference in our own lives
and on the planet.
They shared from their hearts
a lifetime worth of knowledge.
I knew I was ready.
I was ready for something.
But I was totally
unprepared for the adventure
that was about to begin.
>>The human mind really creates
everything that happens to you.
It looks like it's been
created by something out there.
But it isn't.
It's being created
inside your head.
What you pay attention to, what
you decide to pay attention to
has a huge effect on
what happens to you
and what you create
in your life.
You're creating your
own reality by deciding
what to pay attention
to for instance.
What most people don't get
is that that is a choice.
>>We live in a universe
of infinite possibilities
that responds to the
power of our thoughts.
Our neurology, like our
nervous system and our brain,
can't take in infinite
possibilities.
It's like way too
much information.
It would be like trying to
download the whole internet.
So what we do and
how our mind works
is that it sorts through
infinite possibilities,
and it picks up just
a tiny little bit.
So it sorts and sifts,
and, in that process,
it deletes some things
then makes generalizations.
And that tiny little
bit that we pick up
is what harmonizes with
our deepest beliefs
and our values and
our programming.
>>There have been
many conversations
in the recent years about what
you focus on, you attract,
and what happens in
your life is because
of what you think about.
And that is absolutely true.
What happens after we
think about something
is a certain energy is created.
And it is created
not only in our body
but in our personal
space, in our reality.
And a certain reality then
unfolds because of thoughts
and beliefs that
we hold in place.
>>What you think
about comes about.
Right?
What is your main,
dominant thoughtform?
That tells you who
you're going to become.
If you want to know who you're
going to be five years from now
or five minutes
from now, tell me
what your dominant
thoughtform is,
and I'll tell you
where you are moving
or how you're staying stagnant.
>>Most people are not
directing their mind
in an intentional way.
It's running on autopilot.
So the person whose
life is not working
is unconsciously
and unintentionally
thinking in a certain way.
And that thinking
then directly leads
to a certain result in life.
And because they don't
see the connection,
they continue to do it.
>>People sabotage themselves
a lot with negative thinking.
When people are feeling
angry or depressed,
it's usually because they're
thinking about something
in the past, something that
they have no control over.
And when you are in
the present, that's
where you do have control over
your thoughts, your actions,
how you're feeling.
And to get that there's
that shift inside.
Because when you're
feeling negative,
you're doing that to yourself.
It's a thought that comes
down and creates that feeling.
>>We get in our own way,
because we hold past memories,
we hold onto regrets.
We had people that tell us,
you're never going to make it.
Whatever it is, we've
all had experiences.
So what we need to do to
be happy is let those go.
Let the past go.
Release what is stopping
us from our own happiness.
>>A lot of people live
their entire lives
at the effect of
everything around them.
They don't see their
life as something
that they can make happen.
They see their life as
something that happens to them.
>>Any time you catch
yourself blaming, justifying
your actions, making
someone else wrong,
or trying to be
right, or defending,
these are examples
that illuminate
that you're in effect.
And you can't
discover your gifts
when you're on the effect
side of the equation
because you're not really
present to your power.
>>I wanted to be accomplished,
and I wanted to be successful.
Even though I had a
little secret, which
was that I really
wanted to be a mother,
and I really wanted
to get married,
to have a family.
But I thought I couldn't have
that life and my career, too.
I thought that I
was going to have
to choose one or the other.
I was conflicted.
And I felt paralyzed.
>>In the Webster's
Dictionary, it
says consciousness means to
be aware of what we are doing
and why.
And if you're not aware,
you can't make choices.
If you're not aware
of what you're
doing in the moment
and the impact
that's having, we
don't have choices.
If you're not aware that you
say something you contract,
you don't have a choice
to do it differently.
If you don't notice that you
did that and it fills you up,
you don't have a choice
to keep doing it.
It was just an accident.
So you can't get better at it.
You can't make it a practice.
You have to be
aware it's a choice,
or you can't make the choice.
>>And then I remembered
every moment is a gift.
And that's why it's
called the present.
As soon as I
realized that, I saw
that everything that I wanted
was right in front of me.
So I gave myself
permission to choose both.
>>When people
develop the awareness
to look inside the
mind and notice
that, when I believe this,
certain things happen, I
feel a certain way, I
behave a certain way,
I attract certain people
and situations into my life.
Once people get clear on
that and exercise choice
at each of these junctures, the
world starts to unfold for you.
>>You know, the very
interesting thing about our mind
is when our mind is calm and
collected and it's focused,
it gets enormous
energy, enormous power
of manifesting its
own intentions.
And human nature is such, you
can't but look for something.
The quest is very natural to a
developed mind, the human mind.
We want to know things.
We want to know how things are.
So to know what is
this is science.
And to know who am
I is spirituality.
And they're so complimentary
>>In order to change reactive
thought to proactive thought,
you first have to become
aware of your thoughts.
Because if you watch
your thoughts for long,
you start to notice, all
day long, these thoughts
are just coming.
And you realize
you're watching them.
They're not you.
They're just-- a part
of you is creating them,
called your mind and your ego.
And as you begin to see the fear
and the doubt and the judgments
and just watch it neutrally,
it almost becomes comical.
And then you realize
you're not your thoughts.
You can observe your thoughts.
And once you get to that
place-- I have a mind,
but I'm not my mind,
I have an intellect,
but I'm not my intellect, I'm
this pure center of awareness
and choice-- now I see I
can choose the thoughts that
will take where I want to go.
I can choose the thoughts that
will support my dreams, that
will uplift me and my
family and humanity.
Then you become intentional
with your thoughts.
>>If you have a dominant
thoughtform that's
dysfunctional, all
you've got to do
is think a little bit
better thought, then
a little bit better
thought, then
a little bit better thought.
And you start to change.
It's a very small,
slight change.
But little changes
are big changes.
>>You can do something that's
not resourceful, over and over,
as long as you do
it unconsciously.
But if you do it with
awareness, really watching,
knowing where it's going,
if it's not resourceful,
you cannot keep doing it.
>>You have to spend some time
to release the conditioning
that you've been given.
It's not an overnight process.
Research shows it takes 30 days
of uninterrupted discipline
to get a new habit
into your life.
And that can be a new
habit of thinking,
a new habit of behavior,
like flossing your teeth.
It can be a new
paradigm you believe in.
And so if you hold
this new thought,
if you do this new exercise,
whatever it might be,
to reclaim the
essence of who you are
and release all the negative
blocks that you've taken on
over the years,
then you naturally
step into who you are.
You naturally express your gift.
This is not hard.
It's easy.
>>A veil had been lifted.
I could see that I had
never truly chosen my life.
I had been living
out of alignment
with the spiritual
laws of the universe.
Just behind the surface
of physical reality,
the laws are always
flowing, always creating,
always interacting.
I had to learn to focus my
intention to connect with them.
I started to realize that who I
am is an emerging possibility.
There was an entire,
new direction
that my life was taking, and I
was just beginning to sense it.
In the darkness of
night, one candle
can be seen from miles away.
It was time for me to
light my own candle.
I, myself, have been
on a consistent journey
to uncover who I am, to get
in touch with who I'm being.
I think I've walked the planet
for a long time as a very
arrogant and self-centered
and righteous ass.
And now that I know
that, I'm experiencing
a little bit of
freedom around it.
So that has definitely
been the first step.
The next step is to actually--
is to actively seek out
people and places
and masters of being,
if you will, that can
coach me into a higher
level of understanding
and consciousness,
to be more present
to the gifts that
are available in every
moment, every waking hour,
and to breathe more.
I've been breathing a lot more.
Breathe.
>>Then you want to
discover the gift
that nature has given to you.
First thing is we must
stop blaming ourself.
Self-blame is the biggest
obstruction for one
to recognize one's gift.
>>It'll stop you
every time from being
able to live the life that
you were meant to live.
It's thoughts like,
who do I think I am?
I'm not beautiful enough.
I'm not smart enough.
I'm not rich enough.
I'm not educated enough.
I'm not the right color.
When you let those things
drive your life, they do.
>>There's a reason why some
people can't figure out
what they want.
And it's because, when
they were growing up,
their parents never let them
decide on what they wanted.
Every time they were about
to decide on something they
wanted, their parents
would jump in and say,
no, no, no, you don't want that.
You want this.
Or you can't have that,
but you can have this.
And they never allowed the child
to experiment on small things,
with wanting things, seeing
what happens when you get them
and seeing, perhaps
experimenting,
with different ways
of getting them.
And so when they grow up,
they have no confidence.
They don't trust their
own wanter, you might say.
Because they've never used it.
Because every time they
decided to want something,
somebody told them it was
wrong or they couldn't have it
or there was some
reason no, no, no.
You don't want to
do it that way.
>>Some people never get into
that passionate experience
and know that
that's it for them.
Because we find a
lot of people take
on a life that's not their
own, at which they can never
succeed.
And what we mean by that
is they take on the life
that their parents
planned for them,
or they rebel against
the life their parents
planned for them, depending
on their persuasion.
By the way, it's not their life.
Or they took on a life
that the church decreed
for them or the politic
decreed for them.
They've never
really got in touch
with their own experience.
>>We all have very
different abilities.
We have very different talents.
We have very different gifts.
And most school systems are
designed to ignore them.
But the problem is, with
the education system,
is that it's a system.
And it's a system that's
based on the principles
of manufacturing
and industrialism.
The idea is if you
keep with the program
and you do everything
that's required of you,
you'll pop out the far end,
and you'll be qualified.
And you can carry
on and lead a life
that will be
profitable and secure.
And none of that is true.
And it's not true because
human life is not linear.
Human life is organic.
And human life is
not standardized.
And it's not conformist.
It's diverse and extraordinarily
rich and various.
But for all kinds of
reasons, not least
of which is education,
we're socialized
into thinking that
certain types of ability
are more important than
all other sorts of ability.
And it's why so many people
think they don't have any.
Because they don't
discover them.
>>A lot of us
discount what we have
to offer because we
can't see how it's
going to make us money, or it's
not going to make us famous,
or we're not going to get
invited to be on "Oprah."
And so we feel like we're
not making a difference.
Making a difference is
not about a project.
It's the way you show up in
the world every single day.
You are already
making a difference.
Whether you know it or not,
whether you like it or not,
just by your presence,
your vibrational presence
is always making a difference.
You made a difference
today, to everyone
who saw you, felt
you, or heard you.
So the question then is, what
kind of difference am I making?
Don't measure it
in terms of money.
Don't measure in terms of fame.
Don't measure it in terms
of even how many people
you've affected.
Shifting one person is sacred.
>>If people looked for their
gift, they would find it.
But the world has
mesmerized each of us
to some extent and degree.
It has hypnotized
us if you will.
The world says power
is in status symbols.
The power is in the position
that you hold in the world.
The power is in what kind
of automobile you drive,
what kind of
neighborhood you live in.
That's where the power is.
The power is in the money.
When the power is in you.
And it's in me.
It's always been there.
But you'll never
find it if your eyes
are stuck on someone else's
gift on the television.
If you're eyes are agaze
at someone else, who's
living their dream, what
about you and your dream?
>>Choose in favor
of your passion.
Choose in favor
of the things that
have greatest meaning to you.
Your passions are
like bread crumbs
that lead you onto
the path of your gift.
And know that every
moment is a choice.
And you're either choosing
closer to your gift
or moving farther away from
it, in every single moment.
So what do you want to choose?
>>The secret of
life is finding out
what you love to do,
developing a deliberate
practice to get
really good at it.
And that's the foundation
that will lead you
on a serendipitous
journey to riches
beyond your wildest imagination.
One of these days, you'll
find the thing to do.
>>What you love and
are interested in
is a clue to what your gift is.
And what you love
will evolve as you do.
But what I know
for each person is
that there is, as unique
as our thumbprint,
that wonderous
thing that is ours.
And you will begin to find
it by paying attention
to what you love.
And you'll notice, also, that
when you're in your gift,
you feel more alive, you
feel more passionate,
you feel as if I
was born for this.
>>When you start to tap
into who you really are,
you don't have to make
yourself be happy.
You just get happy.
You feel trusting.
You feel like that
voice of the soul,
as it starts to come
through, is always perfect.
It unveils your path for you.
It brings you what you need.
It connects you with
everyone you need.
>>You know it's your gift
when it's effortless.
You know it's your
gift when it's natural,
when it feels
beautiful and simple.
And everybody
already knows that.
It's just a matter
of remembering.
>>It's about finding
your true spirit.
And you know you've
found it, in the way,
because time changes for you.
If you're doing something
that doesn't resonate properly
with you, five minutes
can feel like an hour.
But if you're doing
the thing that really
is part of your being,
that is coming from you,
then an hour can feel
like five minutes.
>>As you activate your
gift into the world,
you get that
momentum behind you.
You never know what the
light has in store for you.
You never know what that
maximum level looks like.
Because there is
no maximum level.
It just keeps scaling up,
higher and higher and higher.
And you just keep touching
more and more people.
And that momentum and
that inspirational power
keeps flowing through you.
And then that drives you to
go even deeper and deeper
into your gift.
And I believe that that
is the source of genius.
>>At different
times in your life,
you may have different
gifts to discover.
Your gift, when
you're younger, might
be that you're
going to be a mother
and put all of your energy
into being a mother.
And the gift is of
love, of nurturing.
At some point, because
we are individuals
who are growing and changing
and shifting all the time,
whether we know it
or not, that gift
might not feel big
enough for you anymore.
You might have outgrown it.
You might feel there's
something else calling to you.
This can be a moment of a
lot of crisis for people,
because we feel, but this
is what I chose to do.
I wanted to be a full-time mom.
Or I wanted to be a lawyer.
Or I wanted to be an artist.
Suddenly, it's
not fulfilling me.
There's nothing wrong
with those moments.
It means that you have shifted.
You've morphed into
something else.
And that based on the foundation
of all that you've learned
and all you've become, something
more is wanting to be born.
These are times when we have
to be really courageous,
sometimes let go of things
that we've defined ourself by,
and be willing to be rebirthed
into someone and something new
and discover the new
gift inside of you.
>>If you've not
gotten that gift.
If you're still looking
and searching out there,
you've got to look
into your life
and go, what would
I do no matter what?
If the world blew up,
what would I do anyway?
If I lost my family, what would
I do, every day, for free?
What would I do without
any remuneration?
What would I do as
a nonprofit charity?
And if you ask yourself
that question enough,
and particularly if you meditate
on that question long enough,
I believe it's inevitable
that you will find your gift.
>>I think the main
thing you could
do to discover your own gift
is to look inside and say
what brings me the greatest joy?
What has been the thing that
when I do it, I'm happiest?
When you look at
what brings you joy,
it takes you back into
the essence of who you are
and what you're meant to do.
It's easy to listen to
a rock and roll station.
It's harder to hear your
body, to hear your intuition,
to hear God's voice, if you
will, speaking through you.
It's always called the
still, small voice within.
>>Specific practices
to find your gift-- one
would be practice more solitude.
Many people are afraid to
be alone with themselves.
But it is in the
silence of your own soul
that your inner voice speaks.
And you're able
to hear and follow
the voice as it directs you
>>Solitude will take you places.
Go into the woods, go and
bathe yourself in the stream.
Listen to the birds sing.
Go to the ocean waves
and just hear the music.
The world, the universe
is talking to you.
>>Another specific
that you can do
is to practice loving yourself,
giving yourself permission
to live your dreams, give
yourself permission to be well,
give yourself
permission to be OK,
give yourself permission to
be forgiven for past mistakes,
give yourself permission
to start over.
All of these are acts of love.
>>I'm in Rome, and I'm on the
phone with my sister, Shajen.
Look.
So I get a call from
my sister, Shajen.
And it was a pretty
profound call,
because what she
said was, when is
the work you're doing
in the world going
to match the man I know?
When's that going to happen?
Because you're really
good at blowing things up.
And I know you have a
lot of fun doing it,
but it's not a match
for who you've become.
And, you know, it
was a great question.
And I really had
to think about it.
And she was right.
Because on one level, I was
over here making the Hollywood
movies and trying so hard
to get something that
was all about the next,
biggest thing I could do.
It wasn't about who I was being.
And suddenly I had my answer.
It was right in front of me.
It had been there
the entire time.
So my purpose is clear, to
share all these amazing people
and the things that I've learned
with the rest of the world.
I'm just one of
many people that's
experiencing this awakening,
this rise in consciousness.
>>As we activate our potential,
bliss, ecstasy, happiness,
and joy is in the
giving of the gift.
Because my priority is sharing.
My priority is giving.
My priority is
releasing life energy.
My priority is radiating.
So my priority isn't getting.
Because if I go
to getting, now I
resist the very
thing that I want.
So I'm on, now, a precipice
of becoming more myself.
I'm available to more
good than I've ever
imagined to come
forward in my life.
And I'm not under the illusion
that I know what that good is.
Now, transformation can occur.
And we always know
it's transformation
because it surprises us.
If it doesn't surprise you,
it's not transformation.
>>When you start to
use your gift to serve,
magic happens in your life.
It's greater than you
could have imagined.
It's like a soloist
becoming part of a band.
And you're part of a whole
choir of angels that are also
in the same vibration right now.
The more you give, the more
things come back to you.
And then it becomes
what you really
desire is more
opportunities to give.
And if that's what
you're wanting--
that's what you're
really wanting
is to serve and support,
you find yourself in Iraq.
You find yourself making
music in an ancient culture.
One of the most spiritual
feelings I've ever felt
is that connection
between people I thought
were my enemies and myself.
Well working in Iraq for
the last three years,
when we would start
the drum circle,
people often came
from different parts
of Iraq, different
language groups
and different religious groups.
So there would be an
initial resistance.
And you could see the layers
of resistance falling off
people's shoulders.
And pretty soon,
over time, everyone
came together playing
their own part,
not making my music
or their music,
but coming together and forming
something new, a new song.
And everyone was just playing
off each other's energy.
I think it's a great metaphor
for a beautiful way to live.
There is a duet that's being
called out in our culture
right now, in our world.
To have the gift of
traveling the world
and interacting with people
through music and sharing,
really, our heart
vibrations across the world,
it gives me great hope
for peace on the planet.
>>See anything we
do in our life,
we do either expecting
some sort of happiness
or we do as an
expression of joy.
To shift from this position
of expecting something
to sharing what you can with
the world, with the people
around you, makes
all the difference.
>>My name is Tatanka Mani.
It means Walking Buffalo.
My birth name is Andrew.
I'm a sundancer
and a pipe carrier
and a ceremonial leader
and just a common man.
People say that the gift
I have is to help people
learn about themselves.
However, I did choose
to live a life that
enhances that so that
it can be given back
in a appropriate way,
in a respectful way,
and in a traditional way, in a
way that only does good things.
Because we can't only
take in this world.
We always have to give back.
True gifts are the ones
that we receive and give
back to the world in
whatever way is necessary.
It doesn't mean as much
if we just hold on to it
and keep it to ourselves.
It's often hard and
challenging to walk that line,
to continually
work on these gifts
that each person is given.
I think a lot of people
aren't willing to do that.
>>Why aren't people
willing to do that?
>>Because it's hard.
>>It's that commitment
to excellence
that forces us to grow and that
commitment to not backing away
when it's tough that the
real satisfaction, the deeper
satisfaction comes from.
And it's the giving of our gift
where the fulfillment comes.
When you're out there serving
and people are receiving it
and you've had to work
hard to make that happen,
and then it just
blossoms in its fullness.
I don't think it gets
any better than that.
>>Here we are at
Refugio Altiplano.
I'm Scott Peterson.
I've lived here
for 12 years now.
I run a shamanic healing
center and integrative medicine
center, where we heal
people with natural means.
People come to us from all over
the world for healing purposes,
for guidance, and
also for learning.
And a lot of the
people, these days,
are insulated from their
own spiritual lives.
We have very little free
time, very little recreation.
We have very little
time to be alone.
They're constantly
under the influence
of television,
antidepressant drugs,
of very abrasive
people around them
on a regular and constant basis.
And when they strip off
these negative influences,
they inevitably will take
a certain transition period
to come back into a state
of homeostasis and calm.
But from there, they
can begin to grow
in a very positive
and real direction.
If you want to create a
positive environment that
reflects your inner and higher
self, what you have to do
is you have to always give
energy to the things you like
and always take energy away
from the things you don't like.
>>So when we're
giving, we're coming
from a premise of abundance.
And that creates the space
for even more abundance
to flow into our lives.
There's nothing that you give
that you won't experience.
It's like if you give someone
a smile, you're smiling.
You are feeling a smile.
Or if you give them
the gift of laughter,
you're the one that's laughing.
Or if you give the
gift of love, you're
feeling the love, because
it's flowing through you.
And as it flows through you,
it's like it comes back.
It's in the giving
that we receive.
>>It's especially important
for all people, men and women,
to acknowledge the warrior
side of their being.
Because when you don't
acknowledge that side,
it comes out in unhealthy ways.
>>The ingestation of
pizza manifestation--
>>As much pizza as possible.
>>All right, let's go, pizza.
You ready?
>>Ready.
>>Yeah, bang it up.
Go.
I look at anybody
famous or anyone
who's achieved their goal.
They weren't that
when they were born.
Your left side's
dipping just a touch.
Somewhere along the
line, they conceived
it, this vision of
themselves, whether it
was singing or dancing
or playing football
or whatever it is.
Then they believed
they could do it.
And once you got
that belief-- and I
think that's where
people get stuck.
They conceive.
They have a conception
of what they like.
But they don't believe
that they can achieve it.
And that little
block, right there,
in between first
and second gear,
stays inside for their
whole, entire lives.
And if you were to
talk to them when
they were 80 or 90
or 100 years old
and they're lying
on their deathbed,
they're not going
to say, I'm glad I
stayed in this little shell
and never bursted out.
They're going to wish.
They're just going to say,
phh, I should have done that.
Now why didn't I do that?
I could've done it.
In fact, the word
"inspire" literally
means to breathe in spirit.
Because you could do this for an
hour in the morning or an hour
at night and carry
that spirit with you
for a very, very long time.
And I think that a
person who is truly
in-spirit through inspiration
can accomplish anything
they want and can
easily manifest anything
that they're trying to manifest.
>>Discovering your
gift is one thing.
Living it, that
is something else.
It requires as much focus
and dedication as anything
I've ever done.
It is a challenge to
every fiber of my being
to be in service to
what I am becoming.
The more I studied and
meditated on sharing my gifts,
the more I realized that the
universal, spiritual laws
I had experienced
were continuing
to unfold within my being.
And once again, I awakened
to this unified field
of awareness, where
everything was connected
in perfect vibrational
harmony with everything else.
As I became open and receptive
to this infinite loop
of energy, I realized that
the more I shared my gifts,
the more it inspired others
to share their gifts.
I was feeding them, and
they were feeding me.
There was a universal,
spiritual principle at work,
the infinity feedback
loop of creation.
>>Giving a gift is part
of the sacred process
of sustaining the community
and sharing the wealth.
And I believe that's
really what lies
behind this idea of
discovering your gift.
You're not discovering
it just for yourself,
but you're discovering
your gift so you
can offer to other people.
And that, in offering
it to other people,
you are building
a stronger sense
of community between
yourself and the people
that we share the Earth with.
It's part of
contributing to and being
part of the commonwealth
of humanity.
And in that respect,
discovering your own gifts
is an act of being
selfless as well as
one of fulfilling yourself.
>>Art has always been a gift.
And that's one of the reasons
why we place such a high value
on paintings,
because they reveal
what's inside,
what's underneath.
One of the gifts you have as
an artist is you feel more.
You see more.
You connect more.
One of the most important
moments of my life
is when I started to
discover my own gift.
Once my heart was
open and I began
to discover that I was to be
an artist, after spending all
my adult life in business, it
was a profound realization.
And when I looked back in
time-- it's been 20 years now--
I am so grateful
that I didn't stay
in what I thought
when I was young.
And I wanted to be an
architect or a business owner.
I wasn't stuck or married
to that for my whole life.
I began to change and
discover who and what I was.
So one of my jobs, as a
teacher and as an artist,
is to introduce people to the
heart and the heart chakra.
And I haven't found a
better way to practice
opening your heart than in
the process of painting.
>>I decided to sell our very
popular restaurant in Whistler
and pursue my dreams
and work with children
in the arts and crafts field.
I have over 200 children
that want to do art with me.
I've never been so
poor financially,
but I've never been
so rich in my heart.
It's filled the void.
Because we were never
able to have children.
And now I have more
children in my life
than anyone could ever ask for.
And I hope to bring this
mandala back for the children
to see that their art
never has to be perfect,
that their are mistakes in here.
And I know they'll love it.
You can never have
too many sparkles.
[LAUGHTER]
>>There's something
here, but you
can't get to it
through the mind.
You have to get to
it through the heart.
>>Everything on this planet is
actually just a certain kind
of vibration, vibrating
molecules, vibrating particles.
This is physics.
I'm talking about
spiritual physics here.
And you are actually
just a vibrational being.
We are actually all vibrational
beings before anything else.
>>We call ourself human
beings not human doings,
because what we're really
bringing into any situation
is the quality of our being.
And so when we're being loving,
when we're being inclusive,
when we're being expressive,
when we're being joyful,
that creates a vibration.
And that vibration is what
we're really expressing.
It's the quality of the energy,
the enthusiasm or lack of it,
the love or lack of it,
the anger or lack of it
that really has the most impact.
>>When you show
up, who shows up?
It doesn't matter
what you're thinking.
It doesn't matter what
you want to say to people.
What's going to happen is
they're going to feel you.
They're going to feel
everything that you've
brought into that moment.
And we can call
that your vibration.
If that vibration has
black, if it has anger,
if it has resentment, if it
has shame, if it has emotions--
and all emotions are really just
vibrations-- if it has emotions
that are not vibrating
at the highest
place, an expansive
place, you will actually
push away things that are
trying to come to you.
You will actually
attract things that
are vibrating with those
emotions of contracted
feelings.
>>You need to look
in the mirror.
You need to look
inside your own being
to discover where you're off in
your vibe, where your anger is
or where your despair is
or where your cynicism lies
or where your resignation is.
And until you can begin to come
to terms with your own being,
it's going to be
difficult for you
to be able to return that
vibration to the world.
>>There's a principal in music
called sympathetic vibration.
So that when I play
my drum, another drum
is actually vibrating
at that same pitch.
And it will be played,
without anyone touching it.
When we hear a pulse, we
can't help but join it.
Because, really,
the principle is
that life wants to harmonize.
Every beat, every note we
make is felt somewhere.
>>We're simply a vibration
held together into this form.
And we're able to
express ourselves
and to experience
consciousness, to experience
this tactile world, to
eat, to love, to laugh,
to raise families, to
create grand edifices,
to have art, music.
It's extraordinary.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The whole world is vibrations.
Everything is vibrations.
And when happy and peaceful,
calm vibration emits from us,
it draws similar
situations around us.
When we connect with
the universal presence,
you know, then our life becomes
a fertilized expression of joy.
>>Your life is just a mirror.
So when you put your
attention on those things
that you're passionate
about, and then
when you start to align with
those things, what you find
is that the doors start to
open, the people, the places,
or things start to show up.
And you become what I
call a passionate magnet.
It's just synchronicity
just starts to align itself.
>>We vibrate things
into our life.
We vibrate things out.
We vibrate people in.
We vibrate people out.
We vibrate opportunities in.
So how do we become a
positive, vibrational
being as opposed to
just a positive thinker?
It means cleaning out our
vibration of everything
that is not serving us, raising
our vibration with love,
with all the things that
we know expand us and make
us feel that we're vibrating
at a higher frequency.
>>You can either match
fear, out in the world,
and lower your
frequency, or you can
stay in touch with your own
kind of preferred state, where
you feel good and
happy, and stay in that.
It's like strike your
tuning fork and whoo.
And once you choose your
tone, let's call it,
your life starts to be
created out of that tone.
If you choose a low one,
you get a low-level life,
with a lot of
snags and problems.
If you raise up and move
into the higher frequencies,
you get a new
understanding of reality
where everything's
much more unified.
>>Now that I was aware
that this infinity feedback
loop was always
happening, I didn't
understand how the
circumstances of my life,
that I perceived
to be the greatest
challenges or the
biggest obstacles,
were actually for my own good.
If I was creating
my own reality,
why did I keep creating
things I didn't want.
If the feedback loop is
feeding me pain and adversity,
then what am I feeding into it?
>>Some of you are going
through some very dark times.
You don't see a way out.
Your back is against
the proverbial wall.
You're at your wit's end.
You don't know what to do.
Some of you are in
situations that are chronic.
You've been in this
tough place for so long
that you think it's
your lot in life.
>>One of the greatest
challenges I experienced
was the death of my mother.
There's no doubt about that.
Is there really a gift in this?
Is there really a blessing
in my mom passing?
Can I find where she is now?
Because really, we know
that she's in the heart.
I knew she was in my heart.
But to go to that place, to
actually find her there, as
opposed to looking for
her on the outside, that
was one of the greatest
challenges I ever
had in my life.
Because energy or matter
isn't created or destroyed.
All of us are energy.
We know that we're existing now.
Right here, in this moment,
this experience is a gift.
And this is what
exists right now.
And my mother is here.
She's here in this moment.
She's present.
Because everything is
present in every moment.
So the greatest
gift I got out of it
was getting past the
illusion that there's
a death and a life
that are separate.
>>Loss is the most difficult
thing to go through.
I lost someone very
important to me.
He was my best friend.
Life is good.
It's beautiful.
But you have to
know how to live.
One thing I could
learn about this,
that I'm going to live my
life and enjoy each moment.
We don't know where we are
going to leave this place.
You don't know.
We have to love.
We have to forgive.
We have to be patient.
We have to be connected,
to try to be a good person.
>>My grandfather,
Tata-- well, Tata
means grandfather in Polish.
I always thought Tata
was his real name
until I was old enough to
know that Icek was actually
his name.
My grandfather had recently
undergone a triple bypass
at the age of 84.
And things didn't go well.
And he was going to die soon.
And I walked into the room.
And I saw my grandfather there.
And he looked at
me and he smiled.
And in that moment, I
understood that this man,
this extraordinary man was
never going to leave that room,
was never going
to leave that bed.
I said, look, you know,
I know you're dying.
And he goes, yeah.
And what is the one thing
you want me to know,
that you want me to
tell my grandchildren.
And he said, wow.
He goes, well, I'll
tell you a story.
Back in World War II,
I was a young soldier.
And I had your grandmother,
Dora, who you never met.
And she was pregnant
with your father.
We were walking, on
foot, in the snow.
And we got to a field hospital.
And in this field hospital,
in front of the advancing
Nazi army, your grandmother
gave birth to your father.
And I realized that, if we
stayed there, we would die.
So I stole a Jeep and food.
And I drove as far
away as I could.
And when the Jeep ran out of
gas and when we ran out of food,
we walked in the snow.
But there came a time when
we couldn't walk anymore,
when we couldn't
take another step.
And I'll never forget.
I was in a snowstorm.
I was carrying Dora on my
back and your infant father
in my arms.
And I thought that maybe, if I
just rested for a little while,
I could get up and go again.
The truth is I was passing
one person after another
that had stopped and died
in the place they stopped.
And I looked down at
your infant father, who
was dying of
pneumonia, by the way,
and I looked into his eyes.
And I said to him, one day
your son will know no war.
But today, you have
to do your part.
You have to live
through the night.
And I will keep going.
Because I knew, if I
stopped, I would die.
And he wouldn't live.
And you wouldn't exist.
And the one thing
that I'm most proud of
is that I kept my promise
that night to your father.
And here you are.
And who you are
to me is my heart.
I left my grandfather
that night,
and I never saw him again.
So many people,
all over the world,
have made so many
sacrifices, literally
have given their life, so that
their family or this planet
could have an
opportunity to discover
the gifts within themselves
and to experience
the richness of life.
That's what matters.
>>Just by being willing to look
for the gift in a situation,
my being changes.
And it is our job is to identify
the goodness that is occurring.
It is serving our awakening
to the powerful co-creators
that we are.
Every single thing
that is occurring
is serving that purpose.
That's the only thing that's
happening in all of creation.
>>I recently discovered
I had prostate cancer.
And it was an initial shock.
And I have to tell that
triggered a series of the most
extraordinarily wonderful
events and experiences--
new friendships, a
closeness between myself
and my wife of 20 years that
just keeps getting better.
And we'd often thought it
couldn't get any better.
But it does.
It just has been amazing.
But it took looking
for the blessing in it.
So that's the ultimate
accountability,
ultimate responsibility.
Am I going to look for
the goodness in things
or am I going to look for
the darkness in things.
And that's a choice.
>>Just the idea of having
a great many different
experiences in your
life, to be able to have
those experiences-- positive,
negative, happy, sad,
suffering, celebratory-- and to
be able to acknowledge that you
are experiencing
them, that you're
grateful for those experiences
and learning from them,
to see every experience as
something that you can value
and take with you that God
may be trying to teach you
or also that God wants you to
experience as part of the gift
that you are as a human being.
>>I'm going to let the
truck behind you back up.
>>But that's a positive
experience, too,
having that truck backing up
behind you, ruining your movie.
You can learn from that.
You can learn to have
a different angle.
>>When something that could be
a crisis or a tragedy shows up,
instead of it's a problem,
what if it's for me?
That's the way I find the gift.
I ask, what if this is for me?
And immediately
that shifts my focus
from problem to solution and
positive possibility and even,
oh boy.
So simply by saying,
what if this is for me,
all of a sudden, I've
got a better feeling.
I don't have this
crisis anymore.
>>I was going to divorce
my husband, the father
of my child, the
man I love and have
chosen to spend my life with.
And we were really
having a hard time.
I didn't tell most people
how much pain I was in.
But I had been dealing and
struggling with a back injury
that I had had many years ago,
from a job related incident.
And the more struggle we had in
our relationship, the more pain
I started to be in physically.
That energy manifested in a
very negative way in my body.
So for me, it showed
up as a lot of pain,
a lot of emotional pain.
It showed up as physical pain.
My back ended up going out.
I got back surgery.
There was all sorts of ways that
me not honoring my true voice
and my husband not
honoring his true voice
showed up in our lives.
And I think that was
one of the biggest life
adversities I've
ever come up against.
>>My sister, Shajen,
and her husband,
Cherif, had been going
through a very difficult time.
Their marriage
was falling apart.
They were deeply in
love with each other,
but they were not
living a life that
honored the gifts that
they were for each other
or for the world.
>>My husband was
struggling finding himself,
finding his path, his goal.
And I saw his greatness, but
I didn't see him accessing it.
>>I was lost.
I had lost my passion.
I wasn't happy with the way
I was or what I was doing.
I wasn't happy with my marriage.
I wasn't happy with my life.
And I didn't know
how to get out of it.
>>They were stuck,
blaming each other,
not in alignment with the
spiritual laws of the universe.
>>I had forgotten
my childhood dream.
I'd let it go.
And it was eating away at me.
It all stemmed from having fear.
I was really afraid.
So in essence, I was
hiding behind this facade
that, if I didn't go for my
dreams, then I wouldn't fail.
So I decided to let it die.
>>I was surprised to learn
that Cherif's dream had always
been to come to Hollywood and
work in the movie business.
He even had a film
company set up in Morocco
20 years before we
ever met each other.
So I did something
rather dramatic.
I explained to Cherif
that I had to hire
a new VP for my company.
And I have to hire
that person today.
That was a Thursday.
I offered him the job.
But I said, if you
accept the job,
you have to pack
your bags, you have
to leave your wife and child,
move to California on Saturday,
so that you can be in the
business meetings, with me,
on Monday.
>>I couldn't believe that I was
being offered the thing that I
was really dreaming
about for all of my life.
I had a big, steep
learning curve.
But I was passionate
about filmmaking,
so the learning actually
came really easy.
I was finally in
alignment with my gift.
>>I think the thing
I want to tell
people is there is a thing
called transformation.
I mean it literally
means to transcend
the limitations ordinarily
imposed by form.
But it's not a light switch.
You can become really
good at anything
that matters to you if
you're willing to do
the work, anything.
>>My sister, Shajen, had
always wanted to write books,
to be an author.
In truth, she'd been writing
as long as I could remember.
>>It's always been my passion.
I've loved writing
since I was young.
And I always
wondered, deep inside,
how I'd get my real
feelings out to the world
and how do I share them?
But I was so afraid to
put my voice on paper,
to put my words down.
And I doubted myself.
I doubted who I was, if anyone
would care what I had to say.
And it always seemed really
big for me and too big
for me to even accomplish,
so why even try?
>>Forget the word "can't"
and just take a step.
It might not even be
in the right direction.
But you won't know
that until you
get to that step and then
the next step and then
the next step.
Take a step.
It's all it is.
>>And when I sat down to write
"Discover the Gift," at first
I thought, oh no, what
am I going to say?
How do I do this?
And then I thought, OK,
I know the key to writing
is just writing.
So just write, Shajen, write.
Once I took that
one step, that fear
that had been keeping me back
for so long was relinquished.
And all of a sudden, I was
at this different place
with myself, really living my
gift, really being who I am.
What happened was that the
authentic me showed up.
And I'm so grateful.
>>And so she drove
across country
and began to write "Discover
the Gift," the book,
and to co-produce the movie,
with me, alongside her husband.
Both of them now fully
and actively engaged
in their gifts.
>>When I started valuing my
own self, my heart, my time,
my dream, it was like I came
out of a cave and finally,
finally started living in light.
Shajen and I just started having
another level of relationship.
It was amazing.
>>Getting space and us getting
to be with ourselves, choosing
ourselves and then having the
space to choose each other,
saved our marriage.
And when I look back now, I
giggle, because I think, wow,
that was so hard, but
yet it was so easy.
>>The process isn't strategy
or fighting or forcing
or controlling or trying harder.
The process is relaxing
into it, going inside
and following that
inner direction.
Because what I think
I want out there
may not be for my highest good.
And I've got to get
really good at listening
to this inner direction, even
when it takes me someplace
that isn't what I think I want.
I need to surrender to that.
I need to recognize
what shows up there.
I need to cooperate with it.
And I need to let
go of the other
and see if I can flow with this.
And when I do, it's
amazingly easy.
When I don't, it's hard.
>>When I was 19, I was
abducted and beaten
and repeatedly raped.
And the most unusual
thing happened
in the midst of that experience.
I found this feeling
of safety emerging.
The logic seems crazy.
But my thought was, if I
could live through this,
I could live through anything.
I didn't know if they
were going to let me live
or if they would kill me.
And when I realized that, I
had this profound revelation,
not like some lofty concept
but as an actual experience.
I got that who I
am is not my body.
Even if I didn't
make it out of there,
I would make it out of there.
And in that moment, this
previously unthinkable act
turned into this gift
that I held in my heart.
Life recontextualizes itself.
And the moment I named that as
a gift, my past was different.
And the future
truly became a space
where anything was possible.
And forever since,
I've felt safe.
>>We have a new
kind of evolution.
It's called conscious
and participatory,
which means right here and
right now, at this second,
beginning with our own life,
we can change, we can shift,
we can grow and become
who we're meant to be.
Nothing can determine our growth
and unfoldment and happiness
except for ourselves.
>>Commitment for
a better society
should rise within
each one of us.
Technology which has made
the globe into a village.
And it is spirituality which is
going to make it into a family.
>>It can't just be a few
political spokespeople
saying it.
It has to be
filmmakers saying it.
scientists saying it.
It has to be corporate
execs saying it.
It has to be parents saying it.
It has to be whatever
you do, that you
are so passionate about the
possibility of what could be,
that you get that
life is a gift and you
get that it's not guaranteed.
>>It just takes one
person's awakening
to elevate the
consciousness of a family.
It just takes one
person's awakening
to elevate the consciousness
of a company or of a community.
And then it has
that ripple effect.
>>You can't, in a
way, promote states
of being that you,
yourself, don't understand.
You can't promote world
peace if you are angry.
As Gandhi said, you
have to be the change.
It begins with your
own transformation.
>>I was beginning
to find my balance
with the spiritual
laws of the universe.
They were like different
colors of the rainbow,
each beautiful by itself,
but joined together,
they shine as a
single white light
illuminating everything
and everyone.
I feel the laws flowing
through me like a river, now,
with a strong but steady
current washing the resistance
to my own existence away.
>>It's like the rolling
stones in the water.
Water flows.
It doesn't stop because
there is a stone.
It flows over it.
And in due course, it even
shapes the stone, itself.
It just needs a little
perseverance, patience,
and conviction that love
wins and will always win.
>>I had the unique experience
to die at one time.
I was in a car accident
and pronounced dead.
I had the experience
of being everything,
of experiencing all the
important people in my life,
whether they were
alive or had passed on.
And I had time to talk
with them and be with them.
And it seemed like it was
days that I was experiencing.
I also experienced
being the ocean.
I was a drop of the ocean.
But then a drop of the
ocean is the ocean.
And then there was light.
And I was part of the light.
And everyone that
I had talked to
and been with during that
time was part of the light.
And it was beautiful.
And it was full of joy.
And there was no judgement.
All there was was love,
beautiful, magnificent, all
encompassing love.
>>Agape means
unconditional love.
It's a love that cannot
be done with the mind.
It's a love that takes us
over when our heart is open.
And we discover there's
no boundary between us,
that it's all about love, and
it's all about forgiveness,
and that the
universe doesn't have
one ounce of retribution in it.
All it has is love.
It's just a unified
field of love.
>>Think about it.
When you're around
someone who's loving,
do they have to say
anything to you?
You just feel their energy.
Their goodness just overflows.
There's really only
one law, and it's
the law of love that
makes me one with you,
with them, with the people on
the other side of the globe,
with everyone everywhere.
And when you find love,
you've found everything.
>>It's this continual
state of being,
so it's about doing
that in our work
and then bringing
that into your moment
to moment interactions
and connections
and into your moment
to moment life.
It's about being the light
and bringing that light,
reflecting it everywhere you go.
>>There's nothing loving
won't heal, nothing, nothing.
And I forget that sometimes.
But I never forget
that I've gotten it.
And I know I can return there.
And I know that when I
do, my life is beautiful
and the results I
produce are positive.
And it kind of spills over.
And someone else picks
it up and passes it on.
It just multiplies that way.
>>As long as I'm
in a state of love,
miracles will happen here.
And when you know that only love
is real, it changes everything.
>>Love is the basic principle
of how everything works.
You don't cause pain.
You don't do violence
to anything, in any way,
even in the subtlest way.
Because it hurts
the whole system,
which, of course,
comes back to you.
>>Coming from our
heart is authentic.
And that's a feeling experience.
And what I recommend
to people is,
hey, you've got to
be able to feel it.
If you can feel
it, if you can feel
that someone's coming
from their heart,
then you know you're hearing
them with your heart.
>>Your heart will
always be true.
Whenever you have a question,
put your hands on your heart,
ask that question.
Your heart will tell you
instantly what the answer is.
And our tendency is to follow
the fear that lives up here.
When we just find that peace
in ourselves, walk our truth,
always be in your
heart, your life
will become easier, much easier.
>>There's a language
beyond words.
It's a language of our hearts.
It's a language of the soul.
So when we give our love,
we add to that vibration
that encircles the universe.
When we let go of our
words and our thoughts,
then we fall into our heart.
>>We should call "normal" the
person who awakens each morning
with shining eyes, seeing each
day as a gift, clearly centered
in what they're passionate
about and committed
to a practice of getting better
and better and better at it
and living a life that's
a gift to the world,
welcoming people
of all ethnicity
and persuasion with
respect and warmth.
We ought to call that normal.
>>It's simple.
It's you.
You're the gift.
>>Since all there is
is this present moment,
since it's the only thing that
exists, how much of a gift
is it to actually be present
with the person in front of you
and expressing love to that
person in front of you?
Think about that for moment.
>>If you had asked, what are
you going to be doing in a year,
I never would have
thought that I'd
be here speaking with
you, that I have gone
through this incredible journey,
working and creating "Discover
the Gift," and that I would
have, through that work,
transformed myself and
discovered my own gifts.
And what we ended
up creating was
a family of
togetherness and love.
We have unity.
>>The discovery of the gift
of forgiveness, compassion,
and family has resulted in
the healing of my heart.
Love is the gift
that reveals itself.
I am now being the man
I always wanted to be,
with my family, my friends,
my business, my community.
Love is the true
hidden treasure.
Living your life
is like sailing.
You're constantly making
adjustments and corrections.
But once you take the
wheel and set your course,
you can go anywhere.
And after this long
journey of my own,
if there's any wisdom I can
offer, it is simply this.
Follow your heart.
Discover your gift.
And get ready for the greatest
adventure of your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]